hey this is pressure Walker find a value
of X such that the following is true we
have the product of several terms equal
to four to the power of X minus three to
the power of X the terms are the
following we have the quantity 3 plus 4
times the quantity 3 squared plus 4
squared times the quantity 3 to the
power 4 plus 4 to the power 4 times the
quantity 3 to the power of 8 plus 4 to
the power of 8 times the quantity 3 to
the power of 16 plus 4 to the power of
16 times the quantity 3 to the power of
32 plus 4 to the power of 32
I want to thank Ben Kraft for sending me
the problem and it's solution and I also
want to thank n AR 235 and Johnathan
love for pointing out a mistake in an
earlier version of this video that
wording asked to solve 4 to the power of
X minus 3 to the power of Y but that
version of the problem has infinitely
many solutions so can you find a value
of x that works for this equation give
it a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution so we
just need to find one value of x that
works the key to this problem is the
difference of squares formula the
quantity a minus B times the quantity a
plus B is equal to a squared minus B
squared so the first thing we'll do is
we'll reverse the order of addition in
each binomial now we will multiply both
sides by the quantity 4 minus 3 which is
equal to 1 on the right hand side we'll
simplify this 4 minus 3 and make it
equal to 1 so the right-hand side we
still have 4 to the power of X minus 3
to the power of X but on the left hand
side this quantity 4 minus 3 serves
another purpose if you look at the first
two terms the quantity 4 minus 3
times the quantity 4 plus 3 notice this
product is a difference of squares so
this simplifies to be 4 squared minus 3
squared and now we have a domino effect
on the rest of the terms look at the
first two terms in this product we up
the quantity four squared minus three
squared times the quantity 4 squared
plus three squared this is another
difference of squares so we get 4 to the
power of 4 minus 3 to the power 4 and
now if you look at the next term we have
another difference of squares we'll end
up simplifying to be 4 to the power of 8
minus 3 to the power of 8 and we do this
one more time
the first two terms again will simplify
to be the difference of squares so we
have 4 to the power of 16 minus 3 to the
power of 16 and we do it
once more so we have 4 to the power of
32 minus 3 to the power of 32 and we're
gonna do it one last time so we end up
with 4 to the power of 64 minus 3 to the
power of 64 and we're done
we found a value X is equal to 64 that
works for at this equation did you see
the trick thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math you can catch me on my
blog mind your decisions if you like
this video you can check out my books
which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon if you have a math topic you can
email me pressure at mind your decisions
calm and you can catch me on social
media either at mind your decisions or a
pressure tell Walker